- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- plan for a story about #the-smart-arse
	- conversation in a kitchen with a programmer that works for the wealthy business owner
	- talking about new frameworks for front end user interfaces and back end languages
	- the programmer is quite well educated sounding and has been speding tiem talking to an ops person that is not that technical and doesnt write code and are not therefor a threat
	- this new person in the kitchen is expressing his opinions on the new UI technogies he is interested in and has experimented with, all be it, in his own time, not company time
	- unusually to him, the programmer is quite aloof, not wanting to talk much to him soon to dissapear and in the weeks and months ahead, this new persons job turns into a nighmare
	- the wealthy business owner turn against him, subjecting him to long hours with no recompense beyond what they think of as a geneous base rate, which isnt, its around a 3rd of what they should be paying but the whole sector has been salary fixing for over 10 years
	- the wealthy business owners have no need to invest in newer technologies and do not take kindly to people close to their operational staff that can bring these newer things in, rather they want to containerise crap old solutions written in languages from the 1990s as these have been paid for, using later technologies would require re-writes, re-factor and why should they ? These things have been done and paid for and all we need to do is add on to what is already there. After all that is how manufacturing plant works. You build a big factory, it costs a lot of money but you then fill it with cheap workers from all over the world that you can keep on low pay and working conditions and you can maximise your return on investments
	- get this clever person out, as they are starting to challenge the status quo
	- they have 'too much knowlege' so when he started to ask about testing, we told him everything is 100% tested. Its tested on a laptop, in an office somewhere, 1000s of miles away. Its 100% automated, on a laptop somewhere, 1000s of miles away in someones personal imporium of Apple laptops, servers, studios, monitors and big I am office furntiture.
	- The sofware build is so eye wateringly complicated that only this one person actually has an incling of how to build it, but even he doesnt really know how, as the software build he has is on one of these laptops right now and its never been built from scratch for months, if not years, each time a new version comes along he's just updated his libraries, compilers, operating system as he's gone along, so how he arrived at the current working version is more by accident than by design, all the time justifying in his own mind that he knows what he is doing and that his Makefiles are 2nd to none as that's how he learnt to build software years ago and it worked then, why should it not work now ? Why would you ever need to build in a 'clean' build environment that is torn down, built up on demand, why would you ever want to do this, when you've got his office right there with all the kit in it he likes to take pictures of and put on the internet ?
	- lets have a debate on this, should we do unit testing ? We need to have a healthy debate on this key point. We dont at all understand what this thing the new guy has started asking about, this 'unit testing' but we dont want as business owners and managers to admit to the fact that we dont at all know what this really means or what ramifications it has for having it or not, let alone why we should ever use it in the first place, so lets treat it as 'healthy debate', like they do in our great democracies.
	- we certainly wouldnt want to distrupt the market place we have now created for testers who test our software. They do it all manually of course but we dont ever bring that to anyones attention, rather, we pass spread sheets around that say what tests have been done and what the test coverage is, in our minds, right now achieved. There is never any direct link, logical or otherwise between the tests we do and the physical code, so no automated test coverage report could ever be done but we report on a test coverage, based upon 'stories' and 'stories' are a part of 'agile'. We dont at all know what 'agile' means but we can make up a bunch of things that we do like 'show and tell', 'stand up', 'three amigos' and many, many more, have 'scrum masters' and they can do things like saying about 'velocity' and 'sprints' whilst generating hour long meetings that are not really 'stand ups' but rather progress meetings in which our managers tell us what to do in our jobs but detract from the fact that whilst on these long, unproducting meetings, that we are not actually doing any real work at all. The consequenes of this are that we arehaving to work ever longer and indeterminally unpredictable work patterns to ever have the illusion of taking control. All the time, on the run from the previous crisis, barely getting to grips with the next problem, to be hit with another wave of problems only the next day. Whilst working on one problem and thinking, I can do this, I can do this, to get a ping on messenger pulling me into another meeting, unstructured, unplanned and with managers that 'make things happen' and 'reprioritise' and who may suggest we cancel our holiday, stop working on what we are on right now, and shift to working on some other thing that they see as all the more important. Often as not, they are in the same boat as we are. They are under the cosh from their managers in an ever higher heirachy of managers, stakeholders, investors and take overs that each want their priorities in play over that of others, each to pull hither and thither in different directions, like a cart being pulled by multiple teams of horsed, each going in different directions.
	- When they say that we are using agile, what they mean is fragile. What they've done is to cleverly mask the age old ways of managing by command and control, based on the military from the days of Naca, Nasa, putting men on the moon. The director of the moon mission called his workers, mostly men but some women. There were more women in computing then than there are now. To say, to ring your wives and family to tell them you wont be home tonight, we're all working however long it takes.
	- Only problem was, once the first men landed on the moon, no one got the memo. No one revoked this toxic work ethic and this became the norm for everyone as we went from one moon shot to another untill everything became a moon shot and we even forgot to realise there have not been any moon landings since the early 1970s. However, this is how things get done. This is how we make things happen.
	- We had 3 years of Covid and people died. In which time, many were out of work but also, many were in work and continued to work at break neck speed. We all pulled together to get it done, to get through this exsostential crisis, to solve the worlds problems. Some really did this, some heros of the modern age came up with new vaccines using amazing tech to do so with words like 'retro' in them. Amazing people and work done by scientists and technology workers pretty much left to get on with it for once by their masters who were desperate to return things to the way there were before. Now its back to normal. Get back to the office, the facttory, the shops and restaurants, get back into the matrix we all know and love. Get back to control and predictable profit margins. Get back to work. Yet we never stopped working, but get back to work.
	- We dont have a blame culture. I thought this meant people could make mistakes and not be held accountable. This is wrong I thought. Ive never understood what was really meant as everything become blurred no sooner you tried to make sense of it. In governance, there has to be accountabililty, you have to know something is to be done right and failure to do so could easily cost livelihoods or even lives. So how can you not have a blame culture ? I think what this illudes to is the general status quo, in which people are blamed for things they havnte even done so that others can get away with doing the bad thing and not taking the blame. So others become patsies for their misdemenours, their bad acts, their blinding omissions. A power company got onto telivision for sending bills to customers that they did not ever have. when the customers refused to pay unpaid bills that they never owed, the power company sent bailifs to recoup their losses that they never had. This was an accounting error of outrageous levels of incompetence. This is not just likely but inevitably the tip of the iceberg as this is a catastrophic event that has managed to not be brushed away by a 'good PR operation'. There will be dozens more incidents lurking beneath this that will never see the light of day.
	- Post office have destroyed peoples lives, sending them to die early of illness and stress, sending some to jail and given life time criminal records. Software that they claimed to be infalible was used by them to systeematically entrap postmasters into a spiral of debt from which they could never escape. The software was never tested adequately beyond its being a prototype before it was pushed into production. The developers working on this project were interested in moving to the next project and the managers were only intersted in getting the project into production. No one joined up the dots to realise that there was no real software, testing, architecting or service level solution present. Even the message based communications the innards of the Post office system had no agreed interaces, or what we would call schema or contract, so each new addition to this amorphous blob of orgainic coding created another non standard behaviour, so that unpredictable rounding errors or the omission of funds could take place randomly and in an increasingly chaotic workflow. No one would know what the systems were going to do next as no one had ever designed it, things just kept getting added to something that was just a prototype
	- each wave of chaos is blamed on the previous owner of the problem in a blame culture until those in the current role become the source of the blame themselves at which point it is time to move to another place where blame can be allocated to the predessesors and so the process goes one
	- as new ways of working come along to fix the mess we are in, each time the new way of working is disected, normalised and adapted to fit in with existing workin practices so as to minimise real change to the status quo and if at all possible to shift blame to the ones working rather than the ones managing.
	- this is how work burnout has become a problem for the individual to manage as they have lacked the skills to maintain good work life balance or not to take the necesary mental health breaks or to not practice minfdfullness effectively. These tropes are use to mask the reality of things now out of control and un manageeble, chaos in our lives in which we are predated by bad actors who have become this way by their realisation that if they dont behave in this way, they will be next and you, you need to behave like this because you are now next and will be devoured by someone elses self serviing ambition that will stop at nothing to destdroy your reputation before they see any attention brought upon themselves for their bad actions. So if you dont become the sacrificial lamb to others predatory behaviour, you have to become like them to find another victim for the things you are about to be blamed for.
	- so you have to be bent out of shape from being an honest, hardworking, helpful individual and become a twisted, self serving self promoting political creature that feeds off of other peoples mistagkes and uses the mistakes of others in order to enslave them.
	- 'he never makes mistakes' I had said of myself and which filtered back to me but I realised then and now the terrible stress that this caused. I have the blood glucose levels on a graph that show what stress can do to the body to know how damaging this is.
	- whenever doing any work, it felt like i was working on an electrical circuit with all the breakers on. this literally happened when I was working in a company where the owners refused to have the power shut down whilst work was done on the electircs as this would have led to loss of production and the elecdtricians were forced to work on live systems. This is how working on software and systems felt like to me in this toxic brew of blame culture where I was clever enough to 'not make mistakes' and do things where there are no test environments, no safety breakers or isolation from catastrophic failure and I was working on live systems that were like climbing a rock face without safety ropes.
	- One example of a worker being held a slave for his mistakes was where this person had gone on holiday having diverted his work mail to gmail so he could carry on working when he was on holiday. This led to gmail marking the entire domain for that company on black lists and halting the companies data, not just for emails but also for its customer sites that used email as a common transport for sending structured data, so the world wide, operations failed.
	- rather than sacking the person for their incompetence they were allowed to continue in employment but forever being held accountable for their mistakes that led to them using their own vehicle for company work, travelling 1000s of miles and only claiming fuel wheny the should have been using rentals or pool cars as their ware and tear would never be recouped at such enhanced mileage rates. But they continued to make personal sacrifices so as to make ammends for their mistakes of the past and whilst they continued to make more mistakes in their day to day work and be held in contempt for those also by their harsh overseers.
	- how can you have a stable technology stack if nobody stays in the same place for more than 3 years, 2 years, 1 year ? As time went on the norm was 3 but I believe this has become 1 or less.
	- why would companies tolerate this turnover, but for the blame games they are playing to justify their current state of chaos
	- agencies are happy to promote this contstant churn as they get either a fixed rate, as was the case for a long time and they thus cared little for the salary you could get from the next job, subsequently base rates fell or stayed static for over 10 years or now they get a percentage commisssion on your starting salary
	- they get upset if you leave within 3 months as this is the cuttoff for their commission in many places but probation is often set at 6 months and notice periods are often 3 months or more, to try and stem the flow of people leaving when they find out what an unholy mess they have let themselves into
	- so agencies are more than happy to take on people that are high earners that flit from one role to another as they can take a more regular comission than from someone that stays put for 20 years. In fact, they are quite opposed to such a thing as this kind of reliable, predictable employment behaviour is in direct opposition to their bottom line and growth predicdtions. Contstant growth is not maintained by stability. Eternal churn is necessary to enable such an unrealistic and unhealthy outcome. Constant growth must mean constantlty increasing consumption when the planet only has a fixed amount of resource, yet we constantly increase our consumption as individuals or as a race, by increasing our population. When we see a decline in populations, out pundits start to cry out as if we are headed to catsasrophe if we cant continue to grow our populations as what we need ot see in everything is growth, growth, growth. Nothing less is acceptable
	-
	-
	-