- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- I got quite confused looking at [autogen](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen) thinking it was all written in jupyter notebooks which in point of fact it clearly isnt, rather its all in `.py` ( python ) where as the notebook files, of which there are many under the directory name of the same, for example `agentchat_function_call.ipynb` all ending in `.ipynb` which coerce the github algorythm into classifying the project as jupyter notebook. It isnt but this is a common effect of the same mis-apprehension and skewed computation that takes place on other projects I work on now, Dart / Flutter being a case in point.
	- Modern frameworks no longer just exist as themelves, written in C, coded in C, stored in C, there is nothing else to see here but C.
	- I became aware back in the early noughtys, when I was learning a lot of new things, that code could generate code. A project I supported back then, written in Perl, remember that ? If you don't, your too young. This project was the precursor to what we know of today as moderne 'e-Commerce' solutions. Well, in order to add dynamic pezazz and doo hickies aplenty, the coders of this project decided to employ generative code into their architecture. What this meant was that they wrote code that would generate code. Subsequently they created a sort of code dialect that could describe their intended outcome. This allowed them flexibility in the way they described and coded solutions in their application. This application would be described as a 'framework' in todays parlance I would suppose.
	- Rather than dissapearing into the mists of time, this kind of thinking and approach to programming has not gone anywhere. It has grown legs and become bigger, even monstrously big to the point that we are at just now where things like 'transpilers' exist, for example in the world of Javascript frameworks, it is common to have a framework that you write in 'modern Javascript' which is too new to be run on a significant percentage of web browsers out there, then for it ( the framework ) to 'transpile' said modern code into something that can be understood by the older, prevalent tech.
	- Cross-compiling, something I dabbled with when building my own Linux distributions for fun and when building firewalls that ran on distributions and architectures different to that of my PC or laptop was quite common for things written in C, C++ but today, the 'compilation target' is become quite the moving target
	- Take Flutter as a case in point just now. Flutter is a framework for writing mobile apps. At least that is how it started out but now it can do just that and much more. You write your code in Dart, a javascript like language with a heavy dose of strict typing, Java like patterns and Google programming philosophy I would say baked in. Then the flutter command line tool 'cross compiles' your dart application to be application code for Android ( Kotlin and Java ), iOS ( Swift and objective C ), Windows ( I'm guessing here but I would think C# ) TODO, Linux ( C or C++ ? ), Web ( Javascript and soon to be WebAssembly or WASM with all the cool kids doing similar in Rust and some C# .dotnet folks ) all without me, the Dart coder necessarily needing to know anything about these languages. Brave new worlds !
	- This requires us to have a lot of faith in the framework that is generating our code. We have to do this if we are to be able to create applications in all the different environments without having to spend years of our lives learning each and every coding environment. Big compnanies will always take the lions share of business and profits and they will afford to have teams of specialistst coders each working on the very tippetty topest and best languages and frameworks to create the very bestest apps and tools that are fully optimised for their target platforms. But the rest of us simply can't afford to do that where we are only 2 or 3 people running a small agency. We have to adopt pragmattic approaches to complex problems.
	- Using tools that makes our lives easier means letting go of doing things in a way we may have origonaly thought of as 'the right way' or 'the only way to do it right'. We have to see the wood for the trees and pivot to a newer way of thiinking if we are to have a chance of keeping up with the pace of technology.
	- My ignorance of Jupyter led me to dive into what I can do with this and their own web site has some quite readable content even on its front pages as, you would hope.
	- I like this from the [Jupyter web site](https://jupyter.org/) :
		- > JupyterLab is the latest web-based interactive development environment for notebooks, code, and data. Its flexible interface allows users to configure and arrange workflows in data science, scientific computing, computational journalism, and machine learning. A modular design invites extensions to expand and enrich functionality.
	- I got a few comments back from a question I put onto the autogen discord group. I had to do this as they make you do this and a couple of other things in order to join the group. So I ended up asking a pretty dumb question as, at the beginning of my journey with AI tools, specifically autogen, which is only released in September of this year, led me to ask if I needed to learn Jupyter notebooks if I am to even use autogen. Autogens github repository shows it as being mainly Jupyter but it isnt. TODO repetition
	-