- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- Typically, a command line interface would suit most operational staff and developers alike. Increasingly even these users are being exposed to graphical user interfaces and the web is the most common place to find them. The web is also the most common place to find the most users. So, if you want to reach the most users, you need to consider the web as a platform for your application.
	- December 2007 I was looking at [GWT](http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/overview.html) Google Web Toolkit with a view to adopting it as my go to solution for creating web based applications. At that time and leading up to this, if you wrote code for others to use, you needed to consider how users are to consume your application and if they need to be of a similar skill level to yourself or have an interest in the environments in which you work.
	- Business users will not even want to have to use a command line and will expect graphical user interfaces. Whilst I was up to 2007 relying heavily on Perl solutions for web applications such as Catalyst and Mojolicious, I looked to Java as a language that would have greater scope and acceptance in more environments. My brushes with secure environments and those that require clearance to work in them were a factor in this thinking.
	- GWT is capable of producing a web application that is written in Java and compiled to JavaScript. This means that the application can be written in Java and run in a browser, without necessarily needing to know any JavaScript. This is a great advantage for those who are not JavaScript developers and do not want to be. I did not sufficiently know javascript to be confident in its use and as a busy systems person, had no time to learn the different ways in which it then needed to be used in different browsers. Time moved things on though and since this time, the end of the browser wars has meant that JavaScript is now a more consistent language to use. Most browsers now support common standards and the need to write different code for different browsers is no longer as big a problem. How things appear in browers has also improved. In the noughtys however, this was not the case and the need to write different code for different browsers was a real problem.
	- Having even the thought that I could reduce at least some of this burden by looking at GWT was tempting.
-