- Firebase Crashlytics can record both crashes and non-fatal exceptions. Crashes are unhandled exceptions that terminate the app, while non-fatal exceptions are handled exceptions that do not cause the app to crash. [You can use FirebaseCrashlytics.getInstance().recordException(e) to log non-fatal exceptions on Crashlytics](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43092383/log-non-fatal-errors-on-crashlytics)[1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43092383/log-non-fatal-errors-on-crashlytics). [You can also use FirebaseCrashlytics.getInstance().log(message) to add custom log messages to your crash reports](https://firebase.google.com/docs/crashlytics/customize-crash-reports)[2](https://firebase.google.com/docs/crashlytics/customize-crash-reports).
	- [Customize your Firebase Crashlytics crash reports (google.com)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/crashlytics/customize-crash-reports?platform=flutter)
	- > Add custom log messages
	  To give yourself more context for the events leading up to a crash, you can add custom Crashlytics logs to your app. Crashlytics associates the logs with your crash data and displays them in the [Firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/crashlytics), under the Crashlytics **Logs** tab.
	- this costs a lot of money if we were to go with other solutions and would not even be as low latency, as many would not even be in google cloud, outside and subject to additional network hops, almost a non brainer
- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- Growing up I was familiar with a now pretty much obsolete form of retailer, an ironmonger. I have fond memories of visiting the ironmongers and would wonder at all the things that were in the shop. It seemed that everything I could imagine as ever important was in there. Being a young boy of course, hitting things in with a hammer and nails or sawing a piece of wood for a shelf thing or screwing something into the wall with raw plugs and using a power drill or sanding something to paint it, all the things that i could ever want for or need were in the ironmongers. A veritable cave of delights was set there before me. The person at the shop counter was sometimes a formidable opponent that could make your day a difficult one if they felt like it, so acted as a gatekeeper to accessing things from this cave of riches. So much like life today really. I was thus well prepared for a life in tech.
	- I became for a time what is called a Perlmonger - one that is associated with the Perl programming language and as such attended technical and social meetings in this regard. I'm not certain how many Perlmonger groups that there are just now but I would esitmate this to be in relative decline although this is something that still goes on across the globe
	- You can be a 'monger' of anything I guess, including fish but in regards to tech and automation, I guesss hardware monger is apt as a lot of decisions now can break down to whether or not to virtualise. To virtualise, or to shift your infrastructure to the cloud so to speak, is the thwart the hardware mongers amongst us and to userp their domanance and place in our selves, organisations, companies and so forth.
	- Once migrated to the cloud, we are using someone elses hardware, no longer our own and in many respects, so would argue, why would we ever not do so ?
	- From a security point of view and if you are a purist in this regard, you would argue that you would never want to use someone elses hardware on which to host your own services. But then, if you are to really be secure, you would have your own secret bunker, bomb proof, earthquake proof, protected from alien invadors, perhaps located on an asteroid in a galaxy far far away to be absolutely sure. You would have an entirely secure server but one that no living thing on earth could use.
	- I built hardware for my own learning from early in my development and continued to learn and apply more to the point at which I spent significant time in and out of data centers, be they just server rooms in the offices at which I worked or remote hosting operations in towns and cities in the country that I lived in or abroad on other land masses.
	- Some places were little more than a broom cupboard.
	- Other places were so secure, you needed to go through an airlock and be weighed entering and exiting the building to ensure that you had not stolen anything and having various parts of you scanned for identification purposes.
	- The cost of all of this was, and is eye wateringly expensive.
	- Earliest services that we could access for personal projects were where small PCs were hosted in data centers. To do this, we needed to go to the data centers and install our own into a quarter rack. This still is an options but is not really a cost effective one.
	- As time went on, companies set up that would do this for you and you just logged in to the server that they put in a rack for you and you could do what you wanted with it. This was a lot more cost effective but still expensive.
	- Whilst you could buy small pcs as costs fell, 1U rack mount servers became an option even for personal projects. These were still expensive but you could get a lot more bang for your buck and some still use these today.
	- If you look on YouTube you will find there are many people that replicate this very setup in their own homes and garages. This is slightly more practical that it would have been in the past due to there being more widely available broadband and fibre connections to our own houses and apartments.
	- The advent of virtualisation changed everything for individuals and companies alike. Amazon were the first to really make this a thing and it was a game changer.
	- Everyone it seemed was trying to migrate to a Virtual Machine ( VM ) on Amazon Web Services ( AWS ) and this was the start of the cloud revolution.
	- Azure, ( Microsoft ) for reasons known to themselves at the time, tended to encourage the adoption of Sofware as a Service ( Saas ) selling hosted databases and web application services. Whilst this is now the dominant trend, back in the early days of Amazons rise to world dominance, this caused Azure to fall behind somewhat however now, this kind of service is the norm and Azure is now a very strong contender in the cloud space.
	- Google Cloud Platform ( GCP ) was a late comer to the cloud space but has made up for this by being very innovative and has a lot of very interesting services that are not available on other platforms.
	- A company called Firebase started offering web application hosting and database services and this was a game changer for mobile application development. Firebase was bought by Google and is now part of GCP.
	- Firebase is a very interesting service and is very cost effective for small projects and startups. It is also very easy to use and has a lot of very interesting features that are not available on other platforms.
	- Developers in particular like things like Firebase because it gives them a web page or rather, web console in which they can implement infrastrucuture without having ever to talk with human being, let alone a hardware monger like I was at one point. The whole operations, infrastructure, security, network team, hardware team, database team, all of these things are now abstracted away from the developer and they can just get on with developing their application and click on a few buttons to get what they need.
	- So as not to sink into obsolencence and as I had always been a developer, I chose to continue to be a developer and regardless of the roles that I have held working with and for various companies and organisations, I never stopped being a developer. In fact I put more time into being a developer as automation became more and more a thing and I was able to automate more and more of the things that I had to do as a developer. The term Devops or SRE ( Site Reliability Engineer ) was coined and I was able to do more and more of this kind of work.
	- It is entirely possible now though with services like Firebase to never know anything about hardware, networking, databases in their traditional form, how to install an operating system, how to install and confgure a web services, a load balancer, even to build a cluster of any sort. All of this is now abstracted away from the developer and they can just get on with developing their application and click on a few buttons to get what they need, thanks to things like Firebase that have become Back end as a Serivce ( BaaS ) and now, even Front end as a Service ( FaaS ) is a thing.
- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- here