- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- When your choosing to be a writer or content creator, we are told that we need to do things like "find your niche" or "find your voice".
	- When I started work at a University I asked if I could sit in on lectures as this was something I could do at that place I knew could never happen anywhere else. I could augment my existing degree by attending lectures in other subjects.
	- I was encouraged to study for a Masters and others I met along the way were MScs and Phds that had taken similar paths. However I needed money and was not financially independant by a long stretch. So I found work in commercial sectors where the money was better. But I did not stop learning and finding new things to learn about.
	- As with a Masters and then a PhD learning and research has to be for a reason. It is not good enough to just wake up one day and take it on yourself to find out about something that is not going to be of use to anyone else or is a daliance, a hobby or a new shiny thing. So I adopted this same approach and looked at things that would better me as a person and be better at what I did for a living. I also looked at things that would be of use to others and that I could share with others and things that were becoming trends or were going to be trends in the future.
	- This is something I call 'new waves' or a much bigger thing 'paradigm shifts'. Waves happen much more frequently, like surfing, the waves are coming in all the time. some times they come in bigger and better according to the time of year and seasons. Technology follows a similar pattern. Paradigm shifts are much bigger and happen less frequently. They are like the tides, they are much bigger and have a much bigger impact on the world.
- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- for me to be interested in something, it has to fit with this goal. It has to be of benefit to myself and others, that is going to be an imporvement on what is already there and it has to be something that is going to be a trend or a paradigm shift. It needs to be an innovation, not necessarilly of something entirely new, but of something that is going to be a new way of doing something or a new way of thinking about something. So we could and likely are, re-using ideas from the past, but we are doing it in a new way that is better suited to our current needs and using the technology that is available to us now to the best of our ability and to the best of the technology's ability.
	- I am a hybrid technology worker, so specializing in just one thing is not going to play to my strengths and is not what an entrepeneur or business practitioner needs to be. Thats called an employee. So my niche is not a niche in the sense that it is never going to be just the one thing, for example, I'm a front end developer that uses React and Javascript, that is what I do all day, every day, day in and day out. That is not a hybrid technologist, however, some days I will be doing that but others I will be writing a businsess plan, designing an architecture for a secure data store with privacy first and user security in mind. Another time I will be designing a logo, creating a landing page. Another day I'll be building a mailing list and starting an email campaign. I might have to pivot to create an on line store, with basket, checkout, shop front and landing page. Another day, I might be a devops guy that fixes a pipeline, configures a new build to put out a web site with new content or to fix an expired key or to correct some content that breaks the workflow, to then adapt the code to avoid the same problem again. I might be an architect, choosing a more effective framework for doing static site generation and enabling the option ofr people to use a CMS to edit their content without needing to know anything technical. Or creating a button on a dashboard for people to press when they have reviewed a website in preview and to push all the changes to the live site.
	- AI, LLMs and machine learning is becoming a part of daily life and the tools and adoption of these are happeing at a blindingly fast pace, so I'm starting to write my own applications that use these large language models and how we write these is news to all of us, as they didnt exist generally untill a year ago. We have new ways to think about writing software and new ways to think about working
	- making sense of all of this, the technology that went before and where it has brought us to, where we go to from here are keys to success or failure, where failure is to turn off and not engage with the new ways of working and thinking. Success is to embrace the new ways of working and thinking and to be a part of the new wave and to be a part of the paradigm shift.
	- this, this is my niche, this is my voice, this is my new wave and this is my paradigm shift.
- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- so these are not the voyages of the starship enterprise, to seek out new life and civilisations and new worlds, but they are the voyages of a hybrid technologist, to seek out new ways of working and thinking, to seek out new ways of doing things and to seek out new ways of being. To boldly go where no one has likely gone before, many may have but to try at least to do it in a new way, to do it in a better way and to do it in a way that is going to be of benefit to others and to myself.
	- my niche then is to be a hybrid technologist, to be a writer, to be a content creator, to be a business practitioner, to be an entrepeneur, to be a researcher, to be a learner, to be a teacher, to be a student, to be a mentor, to be a mentee, to be a leader, to be a follower, to be a friend, to be a colleague, to be a partner