- this video from leabse
	- advanced transition in astro
		- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E749WFtPojg}}
	- need to check this out to see if the ajbc.co site is any better rendered by an update, as pages flicker rather than transitioning on initial load
- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- static web sites get a lot of air play these days due to their speed, security, ease of deployment and low cost but the the main reason for their apeal, even today is for their effectivity in Search Engine Optimisation (SEO). I've had it said to me that Google search results are not important, the web sites are old hat, everyone uses social media and that posting to websites is not relevant, I should just run everything on one of the social media platforms.
	- regardless of some popular and strongly held beliefs, research suggests that from a business and legal point of view alone, you have to own your content and represent your organision on a site that you have registered agains the name(s) associated with your organisation, brand, public facing serivce, registered company name, charity registration or just an individual who is known as an 'influencer' - all of these have their own web site in some form or other. Whilst it is true that some poeple run their lives on social media, most realise that they have to go back to where it all began and get a web site, at some point.
	- Even Instagram had to get a web app and a web site of sorts I believe even years after their starting as just an app on a phone as they realised that they were missing out on a big market place of users that needed to access their services in a convention browser on a boring old laptop or desktop computer.
	- Interestingly, so far had Instagram gone down the path of being an 'app only' ( iPhone and later Android ) service that they lacked internally the technological capability to take on the challenge of a web application of the more tradidtional sense.
	- This is why they teamed at that time with Facebook's people who were simultaneously working on a web app for Facebook. The library that becoame open source as React was born out of this collaboration.
	- What happened over time with web sites as we think of them was that they themselves then relied more heavily upon application libraries like React and Angular to provide the functionality that was once the domain of just mobile devices. Some apps that now run on iPhones and Android phones are just web apps that are wrapped up in a native app container, one such framework is Ionic, another is React Native and there are many others.
	- I use YouTube a lot to get insights in the latest things all technical and in this I cannot say that as I am not an avid TikToker or Insta person, I am a heavy user of social.
	- Finding things that I need to read about or view however I find is often more effective going to Google, Bing, DuckDuckGo or whatever search engine I am using at the time. I find that I can get to the information I need faster and more effectively than I can by searching on social media, even when there after I go to the social media posting to get the information quoted in the search result.
	- Facebook and Insta may differ in this regard as they may mask or hide information from search engines and the internet has innevitably been fragmented in this way. Other social media platforms like Reddit however have not gone by this path and you will still find Reddit posts in search results.
	- In order to get traffic, YouTubers still have websites and work with SEO to get their videos found and I can't see this changing any time soon.
	- Chat-GPT, Bing Chat and Bard all search the search engines to get the information they need in order to answer questions and provide information to users.
	- The first website I wrote, for the then School of Computing at which I worked after graduating was not far removed from what we now understand as a static website in its compositdion and deliery. Whilst it was not a static site in the sense that it was not generated from a static site generator, it was a static site in the sense that it was not a dynamic site that was generated from a database and a server side scripting language like PHP or ASP, neither of which were available at the time. Rather, it was comprised of HTML, images and plain text files that were uploaded to the server and served up as is. CSS did not exist at the time and the site was not responsive, it was designed for a 640x480 screen resolution and was viewed in Netscape Navigator or Internet Explorer on a Windows 3.1 or Windows 95 machine.
	- The web server ran on Unix, specificall Ultrix on a DEC Alpha server. The site was served up using Roxen Web Server, a web server that was written in Pike, a language that was developed by the same people who developed Roxen. Pike was a language that was developed to be a better C, it was a compiled language that was object oriented and had a lot of the features that we now take for granted in languages like Java and C#.
	- Having your own content, copyright and hosted on a website that you own the rights to is the only way you can maintain contrsol of this data and believing that this is not the case by posting your content and intellecdtual property to social media is never going to be in your contsrol.
	- When you post to social media the moment you do this, they own your content and can do with it what they wish. The fact they make this available for you to make money is a side effect of their business model, not the reason they exist. They exist to make money for their shareholders and they do this by selling advertising space and by selling your data to third parties.
	  
	  = So I think that the web is still the most important place to be, and that social media is just a tool to get people to your web site. I also think that the web is the most important place to be because it is the only place where you can have control over your content, and that is important not just to me but many others that do just this. 
	  
	  a household rickety shed from a garden in which my head is at, there is lots of noise, bangs bumps and sawing noises and great industry
- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- Static site genarators are many and varied. The simplest form may be written, as was my early work building a web site for a School of Computing, a series of bash and Perl scripts that generate HTML files from a series of text files and images. This is how the first web sites were built and is still a valid way of building a web site today.
	- There are tools aplenty to do this for us so now, writing your own scripts to do this is not necessary. There are many tools that do this for us and they are written in many different languages. The most popular of these are written in JavaScript and Python. So if you really need to, you can extend these tools to do what you need them to do if they do not already do this for you.
	- Most are mature enough for them to do anything you need and by simply applying yourself to learning how to use them, you can get pretty much anything you need done to publish web content.
	- The most popular of these tools are Jekyll, Hugo, Gatsby, Pelican and Eleventy. There are many others and you can find a list of them at https://jamstack.org/generators/
	- Being a JavaScript developer, I have used Gatsby to great success but also being a Go programmer whenever I can I was attracted to use Hugo.
	- Hugo is written in Go and is very fast. It is also very easy to use and has a lot of themes and plugins that you can use to get your site up and running quickly.
		- it is interesting as this approach enables users to create large amounts of content very quickly, in some cases this could give the illusion of a site being dynamic when in fact it is not. So you could have a highly reacive, static site that offers up to date information and content that is generated from a static site generator, without haveing to have a database and a server side scripting language like PHP or ASP.
		- I think that is kind of out of the box thinking has legs. All your content would ideally be delivered on CDNs ( content devliver networks ) which are designed to deliver content quickly and efficiently and above all cheaply.
	- Most recently Astro has got a lot of pulicity as it has a really innovative approach to static site generation coupled with its ability to embed React and other poplular components into the pages it generates.
		- this approach is interesting because of the comments I make earlier as regards Hugo. Astro, although javascript and typescript based which are not going to reach the levels of performance as would Hugo for just raw text parsing and geneeration but it is at its core vastly stripped down as would be for example Gatsby. It is therefore much faster in comparison to Gatsby and very efficient.
		- Astro is static site generator first by default however it can also act in a dual mode where it can be used as a server side rendering engine. This is interesting as it means that you can have a static site that is also dynamic, with SSR ( server side rendering ) you can have a site that is both static and dynamic at the same time.
- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- here