- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- by the end of July 2007 I was using a perl ide called Padre and assessing another [epic](http://e-p-i-c.sourceforge.net/) as programming with vim was not delivering in the way I could see other programmers were able to do with their IDEs.
	- what I found fascinating, as I do today, is a predisposition amongst programmers and hackers to use vim and emacs. Whilst I have never gotten to grips with Emacs, I have always been a heavy user of vi and vim. The modern vim is reborn in the form of [neovim](https://neovim.io/) which I have only dabbled with.
	- I cannot count the hours I have put into configuring vim, vim plugins, sometimes emulating similar in neovim. For a time post to my moving to other languages post to moving away from Perl, continue to use vim as a primary editor for Go and other languages. The integration with Go was, and is still, good.
	- The primary reason for using an IDE is often code completion. As I type now, in an editor in which copilot is running, even prose is being promted to me. To not have this kind of assistance in any text based work is unusual in 2023. But back in the noughties, it was pretty much you, your editor and your code.
	- 'prpoper' languages like Java, C#, C++ and so on, all had advanced IDEs I think as long as Windows started to dominate the desktop.
	- As a Unix guy, it was a sort of badge of honour to do everthing in vi.
	- Web sites often had icons in their footers declaring each of the web standards they were complaint with. It was a thing. Some sported other icons saying what they were built with, such as 'powered by ...' followed by the name and logo of the framework or language. Wordpress templates still do this but I think this shows the datedness of design.
	- 'Built with VIM' with an icon appropriate to the vi editor was used by some and I think I may have even been guilty of this myself.
	- It is true that on Unix operating systems, the 'line editor' as it used to be called, by default was vi. So it was always there. If you were a Unix guy, you used vi and you used it for everything. If you didnt know how to use vi, you couldnt really work in Unix and Linux has carried on this tradition even though many editors could be chosen on Linux even from the mid 90s, pico, elvis, emacs, jed, joe, nano, and so on. I think I see people using Nano a lot now so it seems to have been the one to win out over the others. Yet the editor you choose seems to have been somthing that some saw as something that defined them as a person, which has always puzzled me. I was even asked once at a business meeting by a client, 'Vi or Vim ?'. I took no time to say 'Vim' and I realised that I had been disaproved of for not saying 'Vi'. It was this kind of purism that I believe alienated a lot of people from Unix and Linux and I think it still does, extending far beyond the editor you use.
	- Some poeple would say that if you use an IDE when your learning a language, it will stop you from really learning it in some way. I think this kind of thinking stems from early days of coding, perhaps going back to Ansii C, which I would have used to write my first real world programs in and would have learnt from the Kernighan and Ritchie book. It is not a long book to read and the language is not a big one to learn. So it would be reasonable to learn each and every one of its key words and constructs so as to have in mind the complete language, making you productive and fluent in it.
	- Languages and libraries simply are not like that now. A good example is Go. Here is a language that itself has a quite limited set of keywords and design, being crafted by Rob Pike and Ken Thompson, both of whom were involved in the creation of Unix and C. But the language is not the whole story. The standard library is huge and the ecosystem of libraries is vast. It is not possible to know all of this. Other languages, Javascript being one, have a huge number of keywords and constructs which have been added over time through the ECMAScript standards process. Javascript in the late 90s was a very different language to what it is now and would be completely inpractial for modern use.
	- Code completion is one thing but type completion is another. In a language like Go, the type system is very important and the IDE can help you to understand the type system and how it works.
	- What this means in practice is when data structures such as maps and slices are used, the IDE can help you to understand the type of the data structure and the type of the data it contains, often showing what has already been defined in a class even, be it a struct or a function and offering completions of these as you type. So this alone in an IDE is giving us a considerable degree of confidence that we are not making mistakes in our code and on saving and running, we are not going to get errors that we could have avoided. This is a huge productivity boost over languages that dont have types and IDEs that dont have type completion.
	- So this is another reason to not use languages like Perl that are not typed.
	- Many of us today use Visual Studio Code, by Microsoft and open source and which has become one of the most widely used editors and IDEs today but it would not have been made possible if it were not for Typescript, a typed superset of Javascript. Visual Studio Code is written in Typescript and even if we write loosely typed languages using it like Javascript, we can still benefit from the type system in the IDE, the editor still uses Typescript in the background to provide the code completion.
	- Whilst Padre, Epic and other IDEs were available for me back then for writing Perl, many problems I didnt fully appreciate I had were not being solved, due to the underlying issues with the language itself. This was coupled with a personal investment in the language going back to pre 2000 and a reluctance to move away from it.
	- It was in the late 90s and I had gone to Newcastle University to atted a course in the new fangled HTML of the day. I got to speak with some of the trainers there, who would have been professors or lecturers at the University so I could have had confidence in their authority in their subject. I asked them what programming language I would be best to learn for the web and they correctly said Perl. The illustation given was that of a 'spider' crawling the web, which is what search engines do, and that Perl was the best language for this, requiring just a few lines of code to do it.
	- When I worked at ICL and joined their engineering community, as it was officially called, walking round the offices in every bay and window ledge would be copies of the Perl Lanugage book by Larry Wall together with Learning Perl. Perl was like vim back then, it was the language of choice for Unix and Linux and the internet.
-