- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- on YouTube I came across a guy called [pau](https://substack.com/@paulabartabajo) presenting a course on Machine Learning Operations with a another guy [Paul](https://substack.com/@pauliusztin) 
		- Pau mainly delivers with Paul from time to time punched in to clarify some points. He is using substack as his place to record links to stuff, not found any reference to Discord yet, mebe that's for paying subscribers on substack. It could be worth the investment, but I'm not sure yet.
		- It is interesting how a lot of creators are going outside of YouTube to gain funding, this being one of several. Patrreon was one of the first, buy me a coffee also has been around for quite some time. Youtube memberships are also on the increase and over in X land, Elon is trying to get away from a failing advertising model by creating a subscription service for a monthly fee. 
		- The algorythm changed on YouTube a years or so ago now and what would have been profitable smaller channels fell off the scope and only 'influancas' with over a million subs got promoted. Adverts got pushed 2 or 3 times in short videos with no option to skip after a few seconds on some. Pre ads might run now for minutes at a time now forcing me sometimes to quit the video and go elsewhere.
		- As a learning tool, YouTube has been the defacto place to further knowlege and share new ideas and I have found it a bounteous source of knowlege for IT and computer science. 
		- Before this, I used Udemy, which as I see it democtratized e-learning. I was accustomed to waiting for companies to not pay for training and to have to buy it myself but at one time it was something you could get sponsored for where you worked. I spent just over a month on Solaris training at various campuses in the south of the UK, in London on London Bridge as I remmber it and all were hotel accomodation and long stay overs. It was submersive and speacialised, high cost and very focussed. Nothing is the same now, although I am certain courses like this still exist. I've hear of 'apple training school' of which I am sure is a similar thing and only for the privilaged few or deep pocketed individuals.
		- The internet has been a place I have gone to after the before times and when it started and we used noisy modems to connect to the world wide wait to slowly download long pages and clunky images to find information, to learn and research, for on line documentation and code.
		- Each new thing I found was like a gem or a shiny thing that spured me on to find the next. This has not changed but as you get older and (perhaps) wiser, it is not as often as once was. 'Dont believe the hype' as the song goes kicks in after a while as there has always been attempts to 'gain mind share' for the latest thing above all else. 
		- This can result in a state of affairs in which only the latest technology is used and the old is discarded. Tools that can simply get the job done, for example, a guy I follow, Brad Traversey has said just this and will only recently publish a comprehensive course on the latest version of Bootstrap, a front end libray for creating web sites using latest and easy to use markup and publhed as open source by Twitter. It has been around for a while now but other tools like Tailwind have come along and are now the latest thing. There is nothing wrong with ether of them. I like them both and use Tailwind whenvever I can but if you follow the zeitgeist you would think Bootstrap is dead, yet is is actively being developed and used by many. Freelancers will use it to get the job done and not worry about the super latest thing. Their clients dont really care if the CSS loads nanoseconds faster or if the markup is a few bytes smaller. They just want a web site that works and looks good and is delivered on time and on budget.
		- When Chat-GPT started up a year ago in the common form of a chat window on a web page that many have started to use in place of traditional search tools now, it fired up a wave of hype around artificial intelligence but Machine Learning has been around for a while now and is not new. It is just that the tools have become more accessible and easier to use. The guy Pau I found recently has been publishing on YouTube seriously for a few months only and before that, started out pushing some simple animations and recordings of ML projects he'd been working on so he and others like him have only really started publishing in the last year or so in their topic areas.
		- So I'm startig to see a new shiny thing, a potential new wave coming along and have to supress the tingly excited feeling that can sweep you off down rabbit holes and fail to complete your current tasks at hand. This is an innevitable and constant cycle of learning and discovery and I have to remind myself to stay focussed on the task at hand and not get distracted by the latest thing.
		- If it werent for this though, you would find yourself in a pretty plane and mundane existence and perhaps that is just fine. If I were a basket weaver in a cottage somewhere in the upper hebridean isles I could be a lot happier than I am where I am just now. With unlimited life spans we could experience all such life styles and be happy with them all.
		- But I am getting another feeling greater than the shiny things can bring on, and this is of a big wave, of something much much bigger than before and I tend to see this as a paradigm shift similar to that of virtualisation, cloud computing and the internet itself. Automation and orchestration, that gets a whole place for itslelf as that has been an over arching theme that has persisted from the start of modern technology and is currently realised in things like kubernetes, containerisation and the many tools and services that have been built around them.
		- Pau talks about ML Ops best practices, which piques my interest in particular. The way he works is similar to the way I work as a Devops person, with automated build, test and review. He uses virtualisation for his Python, not in the way we use this for containers and VMs but rather in the way each programming environment is created in order to maintain consistency and predictablilty in devolopment environments. He uses penv and virtualenv like approaches to this if my memory serves and prefers this to anaconda, as do I. Its nice to find people that think in a way that 'clicks' with that of your own conlclusions. He uses Poetry also with pytyon, which I'm not as familiar with but dont have any reasons not to want to use it more.
		- Pipelines hes shows using Github workflows, makefiles and .env files. Never store secrets into Git he says.
		- Amen.
		- I've had very difficult times with developers that refused to do anyhting other than store API keys into Git and for us not to fall out and to stay productive and work together 'nicely'. 
		- Pau is in effect demonstrating a sort of 'test driven ML programming'. An LLM in this case is being tuned to perform a specific task and to answere when promtped in a particular way. 
		- If you are tuning an LLM for a demo then this isnt so much of a problem if the LLM goes off piste and gives a few wrong answers but as he points out and I hearily agree, for procution systems, this is a deal breaker. So to mitigate against this, the LLM needs to be tested with a variety of test cases and the results compared to the expected results.
		- The process of testing, modifying or fixing and resubmitting with Pull Requests and approval process is all part of the Agile and CI/CD process, all of which is the devops way of working.
		- So this is for me a top dollar find in the YouTube world and I will be following this guy and his work closely.
-