- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- Feb 3rd 2007 a guy called Peter, I think one of the many unsung heros on the internet, blogged about a [bug](http://petesbloggerama.blogspot.com/2007/02/ie7-vista-internet-explorer-has-stopped.html) he'd found with Vista, the operating system we all like to forget and IE7 dissapearing from use, which shouldnt have happened on the platform that we all had to use made by the only, dominant software corporation on the planet that at that time seemed to have no need to improve upon their previous or current solutions, let alone work alongside other companies to make the internet a better place. Rather, they had at this point polluted the internet with their own proprietary solutions and employing an 'adopt, embrace and extinguish' approach to doing business. I remember this one hitting me at the time, and Peters blog was a god send to me also, by the comments that followed seem to attest, to a fair few others too. I note from his comment that `That's a BUG, D00D - I don't care how you slice it!` and I remember the kind of toxic PR that went about back then so as to say something is 'a feature' rather than a bug or at fault. The thinking was that by 'good marketing & PR' anything could be made to look good. I suppose at least in that respect, nothing much has changed however we can be eternally grateful that Windows Vista and IE are no longer in our lives and good ridence to them. If I'm feeling down or low, I remember back to the interminably slow start up times for Windows back then and the fragmented hell of mis madtched standards that the Internet was back then with ludicrouse software instabilities we all put up with daily. The IT crowd, a tv series I still cannot bring myself to watch more than extracts had a line in it 'have you switched it off and on again ?', the words of the IT support person telling a user what to do the 100th time to put the phone down on them. Most in IT now are not old enough to remember this, which is not a bad thing but someone needs to be reminded, lest we return to this twilight zone of technology.
	- Today we are at the crest of a wave of new innovations brought about by the advent of Chat-GPT just a year ago.
	- Last night ( 17th November 2023 ) we heard of the departure of the guy that founded Chat-GPT, who was, it is reported, invited into a meeting with the board to be given his walking orders. He tweeted, exed, whatever on the formerly known Twitter now known as X, that he is now looking forward to the next chapter in his fantastic journey in the worl of AI. Good luck to him. I have no idea of what he said or didnt say that led to the board doing this but anothe founding member also leaving of his own volition and leaving and interim CEO in place all sounds a bit of a panic mess. This in the light of billions of USD investment from Micrsoft alone into the group will mean 'significant scrutiny' being brought to bare on this foundling company that has become flavour of every month. If there is one thing I have found to be a major influencer in decision making is money. And when that kind of money is in play, things happen quickly. So I guess we'll need to watch this space.
	- This is in complete contrast to the then years of Microsoft and other dinosaur organisations rulling the roost back in the nourghies and before. The still do much the same in their different ways but technogoly, the very thing that they used to dominate the market place and control us as users and to be little more than compliant consumers, the technology is the thing that is forcing them, and us to change.
	- When Chat-GPT sufaced a year ago many people had been going along in their lives, having little to do with technological innovations baring those that are served to us in easy to use, thumb swipable wasy on 30 second videos or 140 character tweets. Suddenly now, we are all able to talk directely to an LLM. It talks back to us. The conversatoin is coherant and that which we would have otherwise understood to be with another human being. We know it's a machine, software, that we are talking to but more to that is it can tell us things we dont know and show us how to problem solve things that we couldnt google that fast to get an answer. Suddenly everyone can see where we are headed and realise how this could be a threat to employment, freedom of speach, democracy and the very fabric of society. And yet, this techology has been with us for years. How else does Google make sense of the internet or answer our questions in its window ? Behind all this has been obfuscated a very big back-end that employs a lot of clever tech and AI that we have had obscured from our view. A company called Cambridge Analytica were in the news a few years back for using targeted ad campains to influence democrocy, well before Chat-GPT democratised the technology. The difference is that now, we can all see it and use it. But back then and for a long time now, software engineers and data scientists have been using this technogy to do all sorts of things but access to the everyday user has been opaque.
	- To interact with AIs would have required some kind of 'API' ( applicsation program interface ) in order to build, train and tune LLMs ( large language models ) and the scientific and engineering knowledge to do so. This is not something that the average person would have had access to. Never the less only a few years ago, this was being used to infuence elections and it then permeated into the general malaise of news and social media. Before that and for a long time 'the google algorythn' are the mystical words used by people talking about things going on behind closed doors of big corporations that we all use daily and in an attempt for us to voice that which we do not understand but tacitly accept as being 'the way things are'.
	- Finally, when faced with exstostencial threats of life distrupting reality, politicians and world leaders are jumping from their back foot to attend at conferences such as the one recently at Bletchley Park in the UK to all have a chin wag with the big IT movers and shakers. Assurances are made that we are all ok boys, its all going to be ok if we all stick together and, of course, do the right thing. But we dont want to throw the baby out of the bathwater, so please come here and spend your billions and set up shop in our back yard. We'll give you tax breaks and all sorts of other incentives to come here and do your thing. Money talks.
	- What has changed in the last 12 months since chat-GPT did its thing is that the tech has been further democrotised.
	- Another, big innovation is now open to us due to the surprise entry of Facebook open sourcing Llama, its LLM early 2023 and Llama 2 July 2023.
	- I'm still in my head realing from this as up to now, the only way you could use such a thing would have been to use and pay for an API that talks to Chat-GPT, Bing, Google or some other big tech company.
	- I suppose I should not be that surprised as Facebook's attitude toward making things open source is well known. The way we write 'web sites', I heard X being referred to as a 'site' today but this is already telling of peoples out dated views on tech, as for some time now, a web site has become an applicaiton that runs on our phone, tablet, laptop or who know, even a PC, if you've even got one of those any more. It wasnt Facebook that invented the front end framework but it was Facebook that open sourced React.
	- The didnt start this off, there were many that went before them, they just did it ( arguably ) better than those before, oh, and they are called Facebook. So the must be right.
	  
	  jQuery: While not a full-fledged framework, jQuery was a popular JavaScript library that simplified DOM manipulation and event handling. It was widely used for making AJAX requests and animating elements on the page. I used jQuery in silly little attempts at interactivity in web sites at the time but nothing serious but I did use it along side the then Ruby on Rails framework which in the mid to late noughties became quite the thing and I suppose, it still is to a degree but it has to be said, has seen decline since.
	- Dojo Toolkit: Dojo is an open-source modular JavaScript library (and toolkit) that simplifies the development of cross-platform, JavaScript/Ajax-based applications. Andd I used this similarly as with jQuery but jQuery won out I think due to its superior documentation and ease of use. At this time it was widely thought that documentation was something that was left to be the last thing and low in our list of priorities but jQuery changed all that as people had to realise that if you get your docs right, then programmers will come. And they did. Dojo withered but jQuery went on to become the defacto standard for a long time.
	- Backbone.js: Introduced in 2010, Backbone.js is a lightweight JavaScript framework that provides structure to web applications by offering models, views, collections, and routers. It was one of the early attempts to bring structure to client-side code. I never used Backbone as I was still in the guts of automating back ends as an early Devops / SRE automate automate automate kind a guy but I read about it and was of the thinking that this would change everything, and it did. I also knew I'd have to learn it or something similar, and I did.
	- Knockout.js: Released in 2010, Knockout.js is a JavaScript library that helps in implementing the Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) pattern. It allows developers to create dynamic and responsive user interfaces with declarative bindings. Like backbone, it happend and was almost gone by the time I got my front end hat really firmly on my noggin. So I never used knockout but am aware of its influence on the frameworks that came after it.
	- Ember.js: First released in 2011, Ember.js is a more comprehensive JavaScript framework that follows the convention over configuration (CoC) and uses the Ember CLI to generate and manage projects. It provides a full set of tools for building ambitious web applications. I think I bought a book on Ember, not a printed book I'll have you know, I'm not a crusty oldy, I buy electronic things I'll have you know, just like younger folk. I never delivered any solutions using Ember but it had great promise. I believe some still use it today but it has lost popularity and other frameworks have taken its place.
	- Meteor.js: Meteor is a full-stack JavaScript framework that enables the development of real-time web applications. It provides an integrated stack, including a front-end framework, a back-end framework, and a database layer. I got very excited about MeteorJS and invested time and effort into it. I was able to create my own hobby horse applications that amounted pretty much to nothing and even created a mobile app, my first mobile app generated from pure Javascript. This is well before things like React Native became as big as they are today. So that was really a thing. I also used MeteorJS to create dashboards for sales pitches for a Business Continuity company I worked for at the time and it went up on big screens across the walls for customers to see as part of walk through presentations. This was a light bulb moment for me and I guess so to for others, that saw this and realised the web, web pages, and web sites were gone in all but form and this was to be a new future and gone would be the former.
	- All these framworks, chanied the way we thought about what a web site or what an app is. Some still think that an app is on the phone and nowhere else but clearly this is not the case and was only that way prior to 2010.
	- AngularJS from Google became a major player in this field, as did React and later VueJS with others like Svelte coming in later and shaking them all up.
	- But React has become a dominant force in the front end world and is used by many big companies and small alike. It is also used in the back end with NodeJS and is used to create mobile apps with React Native. All this open source and originally from Facebook.
	- So I'm not overly surprised at Facebook open sourcing Llama. But I' still surprised, if you know what I mean. This is itself, huge.
	-