- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- I worked with PGP and used SSL / TLS from the beginning, even being criticized by old school thinkers for not using plain text network communication
	- I remember feeling confused and a little fearful of PGP and using encryption in general. Granted this was a while ago now and I certainly dont have that now. If you find the idea of using high grade encryption daunting, perhaps a contributing factor to this could be the hype / mystique surrounding it. I think this is a shame and I hope to help dispel this myth. It is true that encryption itself is a highly complex subject, but using it is not. I hope to show you that using encryption is not as hard as you might think.
	- there are broadly two main types of encrytion, symmetric and asymmetric. Symmetric encryption is where the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt the data. Asymmetric encryption is where two keys are used, one to encrypt and one to decrypt. The key used to encrypt the data cannot be used to decrypt it and vice versa. Asymmetric encryption is also known as public key encryption.
	- so lets break this down. The first of the two approaches, the one they call symmetric, means that you have some text or picutre data, movie file, whatever. The data that your computer stores is represented by numbers in a file on your disk. To encrypt the data, that is, make it undecyperhable by someone you dont want reading it needs to be mathmatecally strambled, like scrambling an egg but with a difference. This omlette, you can reverse back into being just the eggs you stared out with, each back in their shells and perfectly what you had to start off with. The reversability of this omlette making / reversal is the majic that we dont need to understanc intimately, rather we can see this as a tool that does this for us. The software is relatively simple and if we were to look at the code most of us would stand a chance of understanding what its doing and how it works but the really clever part is the maths behind the cypher.
	- A cypher in its simplest form could take the letters of the alphabet and give each one a number. A message could be transposed to be a stream of numbers, each representing the letters of each word. Then each number could have a numeric alteration, for example adding 2 to eah one. The 'cyphered' message of numbers could be written down and sent off by a messenger who would be unnable to read the message. The reciever would need to subtract 2 from each number and then convert the string of numbers back into letters and he presto, they have a 'plain text' message from the sender and the secret message has been sent. This is a very simple example of a cypher and there are many more complex ones. The point is that the cypher is a tool that can be used to scramble and unscramble data in a way that is 'reverseable' and this is the majic that makes encryption possible.
	- Real, modern day cyphers are vastly more complex than this and are based on very complex maths. The maths is so complex that it is not pracdtilly possible, using current silicon based processing power to easily reverse the cypher without the key.
	- The second 'kind' of encription, 'asymetric' has another twist added to the mix. This is where two keys are used, one to encrypt and one to decrypt. The key used to encrypt the data cannot be used to decrypt it and vice versa. Asymmetric encryption is also known as public key encryption.
	- So if you are the sender of the message you need the 'public' key of the person you want to send to. With this 'public' key you can encrypt your message to them and the output cypher is something that you can send but you have no way of reading it. You still have the message that you had at the start though. So you can read your own messages. The cypered message you can safely send to the the reciever and they get it, can use their special 'private' key to decrypt it and read it.
	- But if the person recieving the message wants to reply to you, they first need your 'public' key that they can then encrypt using it and send it back to you. You can then use your 'private' key to decrypt it and read it and the cycle continues.
	- The biggest barrier to the general use of encryption in my view are twofold.
		- having access to the right tools and those that can be trusted
			- thanks to open source software, this is no longer a problem and there are many tools available that are free and open source, gpg is my facoured tool currently for asymmetric encryption. There are a number of libraries and technologies that have this built in already or that implement it in a way that is easy to use. If we really dont want to get involved with command line tools, email can be sent and recieved using protonmail who even have a free tier that gives everyone access to encrypted email but I use a paid account for this as I want the service to continue and I want to support them so that you or anyone else can use it too for free if you want to. Age is a command line tool written in Go that I like that can be used to encrypt symmetrically and asymmetrically. It is very easy to use and I have written a wrapper for it that makes it even easier to use. I will be writing more about this in the future.
		- storing and retrieving the keys in a way that is secure, repeatable and reliable
			- the age encryption library written in Go can do both symmetric and asymmetric encryption. According to its documentation¹, it supports the following encryption modes:
				- Age encryption: This is the default mode, which uses a hybrid encryption scheme that combines X25519, ChaCha20-Poly1305, and scrypt. It allows encrypting data to one or more public keys or passphrases. The recipients can decrypt the data using their corresponding private keys or passphrases.
				- SSH-RSA encryption: This mode allows encrypting data to SSH RSA public keys, which are widely used for authentication. The recipients can decrypt the data using their SSH RSA private keys.
				- SSH-ED25519 encryption: This mode allows encrypting data to SSH ED25519 public keys, which are a newer and more secure alternative to RSA. The recipients can decrypt the data using their SSH ED25519 private keys.
				- The age encryption library also supports streaming encryption and decryption, which means it can process large amounts of data without loading them into memory. It also supports armor encoding, which converts binary data into ASCII text for easier transmission. The age encryption library is designed to be simple, modern, and secure, with small explicit keys, no config options, and UNIX-style composability¹.
					- ```Source: Conversation with Bing, 04/11/2023
					  (1) GitHub - FiloSottile/age: A simple, modern and secure encryption tool .... https://github.com/FiloSottile/age.
					  (2) age package - filippo.io/age - Go Packages. https://pkg.go.dev/filippo.io/age.
					  (3) New AgeLocker Ransomware uses Googler's utility to encrypt files. https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/new-agelocker-ransomware-uses-googlers-utility-to-encrypt-files/.
					  (4) undefined. https://dl.filippo.io/age/latest?for=linux/amd64.
					  (5) undefined. https://dl.filippo.io/age/v1.1.1?for=darwin/arm64.
					  (6) undefined. https://dl.filippo.io/age/v1.0.0-rc.1?for=darwin/arm64.
					  (7) Asymmetric vs symmetric encryption: What’s the difference?. https://www.techrepublic.com/article/asymmetric-vs-symmetric-encryption/.
					  (8) Symmetric and Asymmetric Encryption Explained - SSL Dragon. https://www.ssldragon.com/blog/symmetric-asymmetric-encryption/.
					  (9) Symmetric and Asymmetric Key Encryption – Explained in Plain English. https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/encryption-explained-in-plain-english/.
					  (10) Asymmetric Encryption Algorithms: What Are They And How ... - Dataconomy. https://dataconomy.com/2023/07/20/asymmetric-encryption-algorithms/.
					  (11) Symmetric Encryption vs Asymmetric Encryption ... - Device Authority Ltd. https://www.deviceauthority.com/blog/symmetric-encryption-vs-asymmetric-encryption/. 
					  ```