- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- I remember thinking way back when the internet was still what we called 'the world wide wait' that security would be something I'd need to spend more time on at a later time. I would be better spending my time learning my craft so to speak. This was born out of a mixture of naivety but above all desperation at what was even then, information overload. This is today symptomized as a part of burn out. Overload is something we've all had to live with, especially in anything technical or technologically based. I heard the term 'internet speed' or the idea that if world history had advanced as much as technology had since the dawn of the internet, the Egyptians would have visited the moon as well as built the pyramids. All nice words.
	- If you today want to get to know how to do things in tech, often people turn to 'home computing' or 'self hosting' as is a thing on the interwebs of the last 10 years and this vastly accelerated by the prevalence of cheaper computing systems, parts and even 'single board computers'. If it were not for Raspberry Pi foundation many today would have never had access to having their own computer to try things out on.
	- Being a part of the tech industry when I did, I didnt need to wait for the price of hardware to fall in order for me to work on some of the latest and greatest, or even just small systems. I was priveleged to work on the latest hardware as it arrived and needed to be installed, built, racked, wired up and have its systems configured, installed, patched, data ingressed, application life cycle managed.
	- All systems in the beginning needed to be built with the same basic principles. They needed to be built to be secure as the dangers of not doing so were evident even then. The internet was a wild west of sorts and the consequences of not securing your systems would have been catastrophic, as they are today.
	- As there were no standardised tools for doing all this, as we now have with the likes of Terraform, Ansible, Puppet, Chef, Salt, etc, we had to build our own.
	- Securing the operating system was one of the first parts of the process. SELinux was a new thing and was not widely used. It was a pain to configure and was often disabled. Even now I find references to 'disable SE Linux' as part of standard build instructions. But security hardenning was a practice and a set of principles we built into our systems.
	- There was always a back pressure from management and business units to 'just get it done' and 'we'll fix it later'. This was a constant battle and one I often saw lost. Systems would be built lacking basic security hardenning and would be left that way.
	- Stories would emerge, for example a leading cloud service providor managed to have vast amounts of personal user data exposed on a Mongo database, running on the public internet and having no password set to prevent full access. Some softwares, Mongo was not alone in this, out of the box would have no security enabled and it was left to the engineer to configure it. Under pressure to get things done, this kind of thing could, did and will continue to happen
	- SELinux takes an interesting approach to operating system security. It has a sort of overall policy that is applied to the system and then a set of rules that can be applied to individual applications. This is a very powerful way of securing a system and one that I know if often is under utilised. For each process that is running on the system, SELinux can be configured to allow or deny access to resources. It reads to me a bit like a firewall for the operating system. So if you install a piece of software on an SELinux enabled system, you need to configure SELinux to allow that software to run, and to access the resources it needs to run, be it file system, network, etc. If you don't know what is going one and have not checked for SELinux errors, you can be left with a system that is not working as expected, scratching your head as to why. Often the answer is SELinux. Some I've seen have a sticker on their laptop or monitor saying 'its always SELinux'.
	- Before SELinux we did it the hard way, by configuring each process or daemon to run with as few resources as possible. This was a time consuming process and one that was often not done but in the teams I worked in, from the beginning of e-commerce web sites and internet managed services, we did it. We had to. We were responsible for the systems we built and we had to make sure they were secure.
	- Configuring things with the miniumum is part of 'least privilege' and is a principle that is still valid today in all aspects of security and apply to users, processes, applications, systems, networks, etc.
	- The idea of least privilege is that you only give access to the resources that are needed to do the job. This is a very powerful idea and one that is again often overlooked.
	- Counter to securing your systems, there has to be a balance between security and usability. If you make your systems too secure, they will be unusable. As time went on I found myself working on projects intended for use in government environments and was introduced to something called 'air gap'. This is where the system is not connected to the internet or any other network. It is a stand alone system. This is the ultimate in security but is not practical for most systems. However a security specialist could easily become what I would term a zealot and insist on the most secure system possible, rendering it unusable.
	- Not all secrurity people are so inclined but I have no doubt this reputation will be applied to anyone involved in securtity, myself included by those that are perhaps not, or rather, those that think they are not.
	- In truth, we are all involved in security if we pick up a smart phone and read our email or look at TikTok, tweet on X or is it X on X. If you access the internet or a walled garden of it in the form of Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, the Apple Store, iTunes, etc, you are involved in security. You are trusting that the systems you are using are secure and that your data is safe. Most people dont even think about it and many dont care.
	- Passwords are often seen as something that can be like friday123, someones birthday or, in the case of some members of the royal family in the UK some time back, password even 12345678.
	- I've heard people even recentley glibbly saying that they 'know they should not' but none the less 'use the same password for everything'. This is a very dangerous practice and one that is not recommended.
	- I'm carefull when speaking with people about security and what they need to do to be secure and to take responsibility for their own data security but I'm aware that people can quickly switch off if they feel they are being lectured to if you are not carefull in the way you approach the subject. I can understand this, remembering my own feelings when I started out all that time ago and suffering from information overload. I get it, life today is demanding and there are legitimate reasons for people to feel overwhelmed and to just want to get on with their lives, not wanting me or anyone else adding to their burdens.
	- In my journeys in tech, I have had contact with the earliest forms of computer viruses, malware, direct attacks both physical and electronic. I've been present and part of the clean up squad after major breaches to systems and services have taken place. Some have been quite horrific and have affected me personally, as well as the people I've worked with. I've been on the receiving end of the black hat hackers that gained full access to systems, with them speaking, rather hurling abuse at me in the terminal and not in a nice way. It was if memory serves, at night and I was alone in the offices where I went back into when I got the call. The call was an automated one and from a system I put into place. If I had not put the monitoring systems there, another thing business pressure was against, the breach would have gone unnoticed for longer and the damage would have been greater.
	- Another experience was for me witnessing the take over of a main server, from which the organisation at that time, hosted everything, as was the way at that time. So email, web server, file shares, personal accounts, everything that that organisation needed to funcdtion was taken over by a small group of black hats and used as a server for their own purposes. They embedded themselves into the system and stored files they downloaded from the internet, passed on to others, ran their own services on top of the server that they had stolen. They fought with the operators, myself included, for control of the server so that when their sessions were terminated and accounts removed, they simply re-entered the server even seconds later using back doors that they had created and were still running on the server.
	- On the news recently in the UK, we heard of a spread sheet or similar being sent to someone as part of a 'freedom of information' request, itself not a wrong thing but the person sending it failed to check that they had unnecesarily included the personal address and contact details of the entire police force in Northern Ireland. We were all aghast at how this lack of process could take place but I've seen situations where poeople have copied spreadsheets of customer records and their credit card informatoin in plain text where the file could be downloaded from a web server on the internet. Efforts to remove the file were exacerbated by Google search engines caching the file and making it available even after the file was removed from the server.
	- So even if you take personal responsibity for your own security, others that you hand over your data to may not. If you've used the same password for everything, that single password if exposed in some way by someone else that has it, despite it not being you, could expose your whole life to bad actors that can take control of your bank acounts, your social media accounts, your email, your phone, your life.
	- Before you become overwhelmed by all this, there are some simple things you can do to protect yourself. Firstly, passwords are the biggest thing for most to deal with but this problem has been solved by a number of vendors and open source projects, so it is not something you need to even pay for, so long as you start using at least one of the many that are out there. The first that most people I know in tech use is LastPass. This is a password manager that will generate a random password for you and store it in an encrypted vault. You can then use the LastPass browser plugin to automatically fill in the password for you when you visit a site that you have a password for. You can also use it to store other information such as credit card details, personal information, etc. It has a mobile application as part of a paid plan but here are other tools, Bitwarden is one that has a free mobile app. It is open source so you can see the code and be sure that it is not doing anything nefarious. If you can't yourself read the code you can be sure that others will be and will report any issues, so Bitwarden may be more secure than solutions that are not open source. But if you just google 'password manager' you will find many providors and solutions, perhaps too many but even modern browsers such as Chrome and Firefox have password managers built in. The most secure password manager is one that is designed to be just that, a password manager in my view so that is why I use this, outside of the browser and use plugins that the manager I use have published to make working with the browser and accessing my passwords easy.
	- Passwords and secrets are one thing, talking to poeple is another. A highly effective way to gain access to your secrets is simply to ask for them. People have been caught out by someone they think is from their bank or solicitor, the list goes on, phoning them up or sending them an email with a link to click on, the vectors for these attacks are legion. But simply picking up the phone when you get a text message from your bank to say that a payment has been blocked is often putting you directly in touch with the scammers themselves, who will attempt to get you to hand over details or acess to your accounts.
	- The banks themselves say never to give details over the phone and that they will never call you asking for this.
	- The only way to be sure is to ring the bank yourself, using a numebr you know to be correct and wait to speak to someone you know to be from the bank.
	- This principle holds for many similar scenarios and will hold you in good stead.
	- Paper records we recieve in the post or are given when we buy things we need to think about as to where we keep them and not to just throw them in the bin for recycling. Shred them and ideally burn them if they have any personal information on them that can be used to steal your identity.
	- Identity theft is a big thing and one that can be very difficult to recover from.
	- I started applying security to operating systems so that information that was held was kept secure but we now need to think of ourselves as targets for attack in the same way that systems we use are built and maintained.
	- SELinux is just one tool of many that address the same or similar issues. AppArmor is another. The important thing with any of these is to use them and to use them correctly. Over time, there have been iterations, improvements. Entire paradyme shifts have replaced the very idea of building 'servers' to become running and maintining 'containers' which are sort of like miniature virtual machines, where a server has been shrunk down to just the application and its dependencies. This is a very powerful idea and one that has been a game changer in the industry. It has also brought with it new challenges and new ways of thinking about security.
	- A container is a process that runs on a host operating system. It may be isolated from other containers running on the same host, is typically isolated from the host itself and can be isolated from the network, even from the file system. So containers have lots of options over how things used to be run on sinlge servers, with all of the security implications that brings.
	- We now have different ways of creating containers and using different platforms that run them, each giving layered security coupled with benefits of scaleability and availability.
	- Containers themselves can be built, not differing much from the early days of building and hardening servers, in a way that uses 'least privilege' and only giving access to the resources that are needed to run the application. The container, with its libraries and binaries can be scanned by other tools and as part of an automated work flow to build them that will warn of and trap known issues and vulnerabilities before the container is deployed into production.
	- The environments in which containers can run varies quite significatly but can be a simple as running on a personal computer or laptop using somethign called 'docker' which is a tool that allows you to run containers on your own computer. This is itself a very powerful tool and one that I use every day. It is also a tool that is used in production environments, running on servers in data centres, in the cloud, on the edge, on mobile devices, on embedded devices, on the internet of things. Kubernetes is another, perhaps currenlty one of the most well known orchestration platforms that can also be used to run containers. It is a very powerful tool and one that is used by many of the largest companies in the world to run their applications and services. It can be run by you an me on a 'home server' using something like a rappberry pi or even an old PC that we aren't useing and can turn into a server for the home. Kubernetes itself has different 'distributions', in a similar way to how operating systesm have different distrubutions, Linux in particular. Some of these distributions are designed for different use cases and K3s is one that is maintained by a company called Rancher, this is packaged with 'edge computing' in mind. What that means is it is intended to be used on lower specification hardware,  sometimes allowing for kubernetest to run in industrial environments or those that would not fit in large data center, heavy cloud based solutions. It is enirely possible to have a kubernetes cluster running on a single board computer such as a raspberry pi, or to have a cluster of them running outside of a data center, in a factory, on a farm, in a remote location, on a boat, in a car, on a plane, in a train, in a box, with a fox, in a house, with a mouse, here or there, anywhere.
	- Back in the day when servers were built by hand and each server may run many different processes or sofware programs, each server would need designed to have the least vectors of attack and have behind them and be a part of a network infrastructure. Often there would be another team entirely dedicated to providing that network. Steadily they took over some functions of the server teams such as firewalls and load balancers. Some of these processes have moved about a bit but I dont think soon, if it isnt entirely true in some large organisations that the distinction between netowrk and systems engineer will dissapear entirely to be replaced with cloud engineer or something similar, such as devops or site reliability engineer.
	- Each securty layer in each of these components and roles within a network started out in life often as a physical piece of metal, be it a server, a router, a bridge, firewall, load balancer, etc. But over time they have become replaced by software. In earlier iterations of this, virtual machines, or VMs replaced physical firewalls but as we move into containerised environments, whilst firewalls will likely exist as guardians of kubernetes clusters, within a kubernetes cluster, many of the building blocks of things we once found in a physical network are simulated by functionality within the cluster itslef. There are many different types of network services that can be installed into a kubernetes cluster and different kinds of security that can be applied to them. The most basic is a 'service' which is a way of exposing a container to the network. This can be done in a way that is not secure, or it can be done in a way that is secure. The most basic way of doing this is to expose the container to the network on a port. So at this simple starting point, kubernetes is replacing or emulating many of the things we used to manage with physical bits of metal, cables and actual servers. It is doing this with software and this software is itself being managed by other software. 
	- With this level of abstraction, security in terms of things being themselves protected and being protected from other things is becoming somethiing that can be designed and contolled in software. 
	- Configuraiton, that was once done by hand, is something that can now be achieved with infrastructure as code. 
	- We can now 'code the network / server / security' and have it be a part of the application life cycle.