- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- in the begining, before the internet had form, connections had to be made by hand
	- a basic technology that we still use today although is likely used by security people and sysadmins is telnet
	- telnet is a protocol that allows you to connect to a remote computer and interact with it using a command line interface
	- telnet is not secure, it sends all data in plain text and is not encrypted leading to a security risk
	- before SSH however, telnet was the only way to connect to a remote computer that was Unix based. 
	- Windows had a similar protocol called RDP, but it was not as widely used as telnet back in the before times 
	- Windows was not in existence until 1985, and it was not until 1993 that Windows NT was released, which was the first version of Windows that was based on the NT kernel (NT stands for New Technology, which still makes me laugh as we would say 'NT Technolgoies' in the 90s, which is like saying 'New Technology Technologies')
	- Much is said of recent about privacy, the privacy bill in the US, the GDPR in the EU, and the CCPA in California. In the UK, new privacy laws are being enacted that will threaten encryption where it is used to communicate over chat apps. This is due to the exponential increase of on line abuse, predatoral behaviour, and the use of encryption to hide these activities. So whilst some say that this threatens our privacy, it is understandable how this has come about.
	- Telnet was completely in the plain however and user names, passwords and any data passed beteen the operator and the server was in plain text and could be 'sniffed' by anyone with the right tools. Packet sniffing is a technique used by network engineers and black hat hackers alike to intercept data packets and read the contents. As with all things in technology, there is a good and a bad side to it.
	- SSH or 'secure shell' changed all of this. SSH was developed by Tatu Ylonen in 1995 and was designed to replace telnet. SSH is a protocol that allows you to connect to a remote computer and interact with it using a command line interface, but it does so in a secure way. SSH uses encryption to ensure that all data sent between the operator and the server is encrypted and cannot be read by anyone else.
	- SSH is a client server model, where the client is the operator and the server is the remote computer. The client and server both have a public and private key. The public key is shared with the other party and the private key is kept secret. When the client connects to the server, the server sends the client a random string of characters. The client then encrypts this string using the server's public key and sends it back to the server. The server then decrypts the string using its private key and if the string matches the original string, the client is authenticated and the connection is established.
	- there are two modes of operation for SSH, password and key based authentication. Password based authentication is the default mode and is the easiest to set up. Key based authentication is more secure and is the recommended mode of operation.
	- I, and many like me, use key based ssh authentication to connect to servers whenever possible and in preference to password based authentication. A key pair is stored securely and on the local machine and the public key is transferred to server(s). When we connect to a server, a random string is sent to the client, which is then encrypted using the private key and sent back to the server. The server then decrypts the string using the public key and if the string matches the original string, the client is authenticated and the connection is established.
	- To make life easier, ssh keys can be stored in a keychain, which is a secure storage area on the local machine. The keychain is encrypted and can only be accessed by the user. The keychain can be unlocked using a password, which is the same password that is used to log in to the local machine. The keychain is unlocked when the user logs in to the local machine and remains unlocked until the user logs out or the machine is shut down.
	- SSH does not only have to be used for interactive sessions where we type commands, get output back, type more commands and so forth where we may configure a server to do a thing, or just find out what it is doing and work out if we need to make further changes in an ad-hoc manner
	- We can also 'script' commands using ssh and run them on a remote server. This is useful for automating tasks that we may need to do on a regular basis, or for running commands on multiple servers at the same time.
	- this technique is taken to the next level by tools like Ansible which use this method of connecting to servers to run commands and scripts on multiple servers at the same time. Ansible is a tool that allows you to automate tasks on multiple servers at the same time. It uses SSH to connect to servers and run commands and scripts on them. 
	- There is a vast community behind Ansible, a galaxy, you might say - https://galaxy.ansible.com - where you can find pre-written scripts that you can use to automate tasks on your servers. It would be safe to say I would think that without SSH, Ansible would not exist in its current form.
	- SSH has become so ubiquitous that other tools have been developed that use SSH to connect to servers and run commands and scripts on them. One such tool is Fabric, which is a Python library that allows you to automate tasks on multiple servers at the same time. Fabric is a Python library that allows you to automate tasks on multiple servers at the same time. It uses SSH to connect to servers and run commands and scripts on them.
	- rsync is a tool that allows you to copy files from one server to another. It uses SSH to connect to servers and copy files from one server to another. It is a very useful tool for backing up files from one server to another and forms the backbone of many backup solutions.
	- sshfs is a tool that allows you to mount a remote filesystem on your local machine. It uses SSH to connect to servers and mount a remote filesystem on your local machine. It is a very useful tool for accessing files on a remote server and is often used by developers to access files on a remote server, such as a web server, although it is best suited to Linux environments but there are Windows versions available https://github.com/winfsp/sshfs-win. 
	- Of old, Microsoft actively discouraged any kind of integration with Windows post to NT3.51 and NT4.0, and it was not until Windows 2000 that Microsoft started to again embrace the Unix world. Since these dark days of the 90s, Microsoft has embraced the open source world and has even released its own version of Linux, Azure Sphere, which is a Linux distribution that runs on the Azure cloud platform. SSH is supported in Windows 10 and Windows Server 2019, and there are many tools available for Windows that use SSH to connect to servers and run commands and scripts on them. Mac OS X has had SSH support since version 10.0, and there are many tools available for Mac OS X that use SSH to connect to servers and run commands and scripts on them. If you live in the Mac world, basically, you've been using SSH for a long time, if you ever open a terminal window and type ssh that is, you are using SSH.
	- I've had security people ( of which I count myself by the way ) but some over time thought SSH in some way insecure and favour Windows RDP. This in my thinkng was a kind of madness but I think it had its origins in security managers being primarily Windows based in some of these environments. This is ironic as every hacker I've come across, black hat and whites alike, use SSH Unix operating systems and SSH routinely, some even see Windows as entirely insecure as compared to hardened Linux distributions. 
	- Suffice to say, ssh can be hacked and I've seen this happen, but this has usually been caused by wrong configuration of the ssh server, or the use of weak passwords. SSH is not a silver bullet, but it is a very useful tool that can be used to connect to servers and run commands and scripts on them. It is a very useful tool for automating tasks on multiple servers at the same time. It is a very useful tool for backing up files from one server to another.