- {{renderer :wordcount_}}
	- Twiki was a Perl based wiki created by a guy called Peter Thoeny. I took a look at their web site and blog, both of which sadly look a little outdated by todays standards. The first thing I noticed wat the copyright notice that went up to 2022, but we are in 23 now, so the footer hasnt been updated possibly for a year and lacks javascript that could update this on the fly for them but perhaps there is a reason for this so I wont be picky. Their blog shows an entry from March 2021 so doesnt look like its doing that much right now.
	- Back in the day, Wikimedia was a new thing and we were all looking for a way to make our content real and interesting. As a productivity tool, I started looking for self hosted wiki like services I could use to keep my personal notes and documentation.
	- This quickly evolved into something many people like to call Jira today. A company wide knowlege base where all your documentation can live and be searchable.
	- case study
		- a jira document store holding information going back to the companies start holds documents and howtos by employees long gone and of varying quality
		- some examples would be of how to fix a broken service by running an SQL query. The problem is that the SQL query does not do what the person has documented it to do, more over it has no result that could even resemble what needs to be done, it is just a badly copied quiery from the persons personal knowlege base and that has never been peer reviewed, however this person, as the 'last man standing' is regarded as an expert in this area. Aditional to this confusion is the fact that there is no one else in the company that has anything to do with this area of the business and so no one can verify the information.
		- the jira document store is hosted internally, as this was done before the cloud was a popular choice and the license paid to download the software has not been renewed in order to get updates, however the software is still being used. Hardware has been allocated some time ago in a limited in house virtualisation environment which has now been lifted to run in a VM in the cloud but this also is being kept to a minium in order to keep costs down. The search index is not running, so documents that have been uploaded in the past are not available in search results however existing employees, being wize to this, have bookmarked all the parts that they need access to. They do not pass these precious pieces of information to new starters. So when a person that is started recenently in the company goes on call, at 3am a system fails, they cannot find any information on this system, all be it one that has not been looked at for months, even since before they started and they have no idea what to do. The next day the person is questioned as to why they were not able to fix the fault and suddenly, the search result for that problem magically sorts itself out, now becoming available for all to see. 
		- these exccuses for documentation and people squirreling away information for their own benefit is not uncommon 
		- knowledge is power and people will use it to their advantage
		- knowledge bases there for need to be peer reviewed and kept up to date and it cannot be left to the individual to do this, it needs to be a company wide effort
		- limiting resources to keep costs down is a false economy and hurts not only those trying to do their job but also the company as a whole and ultimately the customer and the reputation of the company
		- 
	- often people hold on to information as a way of keeping their job or holing on to power.
	- sharing knowledge is a good thing and should be encouraged but it cannot in environments where negative thinking as a result of poor management is allowed to fester
	- I used Wikimedia and TWiki as tools for publishing my work and progress, often in organisations where that was no knowlege base at all or where there already was one and they already used Wikimedia already, so I just added to that. As time went on, many started using Jira and companies were heavily marketted Jira solutions. I had a manager explain to me how much they were able to save by buying Jira. So much of the organisations back office processes had now been pretty much automated by Jira, enabling them in a medium size business to not need 3 employees. When you compared this to the cost of the Jira licenses, this was a significant cost saving. 
	- Jira's Confluence is just one part of a suite of tools that Atlassian offer. It is a wiki like tool that allows you to create pages and documents and share them with your team. It is a great tool for sharing information and keeping track of things. 
	- Whilst much of the functionality that Jira offers can be done with open source tools and a bit of scripting, the time and effort to do this is often percieved as not worth it. It is ironic to me that innovations with open source tools like Mediawiki led to people realising the need for open documentation and knowlege bases. We all use Wikipedia and we all know how useful it is. Yet the response to this often as not in companies is to buy a license for a tool that does the same thing and to firewall off the knowledge base so that it is not available to the outside world. 
	- Where this falls over is that the intenralised data remains as just that, data, which is rarely if ever peer reviewed and often of very little quality. 
	- When starting work in a new role, you will find quite often that the majority of entries in the company knowledge base are written by you precerssor with the vast majority of entries being in the last few months of their employment.
	- So it is obvious to me that knowlege bases have become tick box excercises for companies to say that they have one, but in reality they are not used and are not maintained as they really should be.
	- A surprise to me is that comanies like Microsoft, who were historically dead against open source and open standards, have now embraced them and are now using them in their products, services and solutions. So much so that much of their documentation is itslef open source and available on GitHub. So they have embraced the open source community and are now using it to their advantage. Their knowlege bases are subsequently much better than they used to be and are now peer reviewed and maintained by the community.
	- SME's could learn a few things from this and should be looking at how they can use open source tools and thinking to their advantage.
	- One of the core componetents of wiki frameworks was something called 'Markdown' ( MD ). Markdown is a quick and easy way to type text and have it formatted in a way that is easy to read and understand. It is a simple way to create documents and is used in many places today, not just in wiki's. Indeed Markdown is used by myself now to write this and to create 'Second Brains' using tools such as Obsidian, Logseq, Dendron and others.
	- Many tools that are used for blogging and creating web sites use Markdown as a way to create content. It is a simple way to create content and is easy to learn.
	- Markdown allows you to write in a distraction free way, so you dont all the time become preoccupied with formatting and layout. You can just write. Layout is automatically handled for you after your content is written.
	- This reduces writers block. The earliest form of which would be for the writer to be starting at a blank piece of paper and not knowing where to start. Often what the page would look like when written I believe would be a factor in this. The typewriter only added to this block as you would have to type the whole thing out again if you made a mistake. Wordprocessors like Wordperfect and Wordstar were just the beginning of an obsession with what a thing is meant to look like before it is written. 
	- We live in a world now surrounded by design, or rather form over function. We are obsessed with how things look and not how they work. Getting aways from this and returning to basics of just writing is liberating. Markdown is a simple yet striking and innovative way to achive this.