

[Stardate](https://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php) 101432.11

These are the entries for Jon's attempt to complete 30 days of writing for the month of November 2023. 

It is participating in [nanowrimo](https://nanowrimo.org/) for the same.

The goal is to write 50,000 words in 30 days.

Jon also has another handle of marshyon, from the days of hotmail when you couldnt get anything close to a real name. Nothing much changes. I'm hoping to write more copy and publish some day, sooner rather than later or not at all.

"In 2007 I began using a service called 'pinboard' that stores web page bookmarks that perhaps even today few know about or are aware of. Bookmarks were something that people used to use to keep note of web pages that they had found useful or returned to for reference when the internet started, although it was quite different to the web as we know it today in 2023. What was true then is the same now though. How do we make sense of it and what have we found that is of benefit to our future selves ?"

This project is an attempt on my part to log my progress in these goals as a technolgoy worker and to make something that is of use to others that follow.

As these writing are commited to this git repository, they may simply be read using the browser and by looking through [journals](./journals) or [pages](./pages) directories or alternatively by downloading the logseq application and opening the repository in that application so as to experience the way in which the content has been authored.

If using Logseq, first download at

https://logseq.com/ and look for the 'download for Windows / Mac / Linux' button

Install logseq and setup 

open up the menu on the left top and click on the top left icon to 'Add new graph', give it the directory that you downloaded the repo to.

This should open this logseq graph so you can search for content using the search icon top left, browse by 'Journals'